---
title: "Scenario Based Testing for Autonomous Vehicles"
date: 2022-12-25
layout: post
---
Fully functioning autonomous vehicles (AVs) will bring about a significant change in our society's transportation systems. An app-based cab service with fully functioning AVs would not need to pay the driver thereby dropping prices significantly. Cruise, an AV company (owned by GM) currently operates in San Francisco [as an app-based transport service](https://www.theverge.com/2022/6/23/23180156/cruise-driverless-vehicle-charge-riders-san-francisco) and charges customers less than a traditional app-based transport service such as Uber. The company reports [an example of a 1.3 mile trip costing $8.72 (compared to an Uber costing $10.41 that this article author reports)](https://www.theverge.com/2022/6/23/23180156/cruise-driverless-vehicle-charge-riders-san-francisco). Typically in such apps, pricing depends significantly on factors which change with time such as the ratio of cab and rider availability, location, tax rates among other factors.     

A barrier in widespread adoption of these technologies (Automated Driving Systems or ADSs) is proving their safety in places where cars currently operate. To make a scientific argument for safety, we would need evidence of an AV not behaving dangerously on the road. The strength of the argument is dependent on the strength of the evidence. A scientist would design an experiment to collect accurate evidence. However, here the evidence itself is difficult to define. ***Evidence of an AV not behaving dangerously*** is a very difficult to acquire. ***Road*** here would mean any road anywhere in the world. Vehicles are driven in other places too such as parking lots and off road instances such as unpaved roads or farms. An AV would need to behave safely there as well. ***Behave safely*** or ***not behave dangerously*** is hard to define as well. Just the obvious collisions would not be sufficient. Would collision with a plastic bag on the road count? Would a near miss count? What is even a near miss? Would breaking of traffic rules count? The notion of safe behavior would in turn be highly subjective. Therefore, no argument will be sufficient. The simple, obvious argument stated in this paragraph would need to be replaced by several smaller, more nuanced arguments with clear limits to the validity of each one. This kind of a research problem falls well within the definition of a ***[wicked problem or messy science](https://direct.mit.edu/posc/article/28/4/482/97500/Mess-in-Science-and-Wicked-Problems).*** Here, Schikore writes, "Wicked problems cut across different disciplines, engage different stakeholders (including non-scientists), are fluid, and cannot even be clearly formulated. They are urgent and need to be addressed before sufficient evidence is in."

A simpler argument would be one that falsifies the one mentioned above. Instead of proving that the behavior is ***not dangerous***, even showing one example of dangerous behavior will falsify claims of safety. This would resolve difficulties high quantities of evidence needed in the approach above.  

